The President:
Today, America faces a
make-or-break moment for the
middle class.
After the worst economic
crisis of our lifetimes,
some still want to return to
the same policies that got us
into this mess.
They're the same policies that
have stacked the deck against
working Americans
for way too long.
They're part of a philosophy
that says we're better off when
everyone is left to fend
for themselves and play by
their own rules.
But I have a different vision.
I believe that we are greater
together than we are on our own.
I believe that this country
succeeds when everyone gets a
fair shot, everyone
does their fair share,
and everyone engages
in fair play.
To ensure fair play, last year,
we passed the toughest financial
reform in generations.
See, for too long, the rules
weren't the same on Wall Street
as they were on Main Street.
Risky bets were made with
other people's money.
Some folks made a lot of money
taking advantage of consumers.
It was wrong.
And this irresponsible behavior
on the part of some contributed
to the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression.
So this financial reform
refocuses the financial sector
on what's really important:
getting capital to entrepreneurs
who want to grow
their businesses,
and financing to millions of
families who want to buy a house
or send their kids to college.
A key part of that was putting
in place the first-ever consumer
watchdog -- someone whose job it
is to protect American families
from being taken advantage
of by mortgage lenders,
payday lenders, and
debt collectors.
Tens of millions of Americans
use these services.
Protecting them from
unscrupulous practices is an
important job.
And that's why I nominated
Richard Cordray to serve as the
head of this consumer
watchdog agency.
As the former Attorney
General of Ohio,
Richard helped recover billions
of dollars on behalf of retirees
and stood up to dishonest
lending practices.
He has the support of most
Attorney Generals across the
country, both Democrats
and Republicans.
Members of Congress from both
parties say he's more than
qualified for the job.
And yet on Thursday, Republicans
blocked his nomination.
They refused to even allow
it to come up for a vote.
That doesn't make any sense.
Do Republicans in Congress think
our financial crisis was caused
by too much oversight
of mortgage lenders or
debt collectors?
Of course not.
And every day America has
to wait for a new consumer
protection watchdog is another
day that dishonest businesses
can target and take advantage
of students, seniors,
and service members.
So I refuse to take
"no" for an answer.
Financial institutions have
plenty of high-powered lawyers
and lobbyists
looking out for them.
It's time consumers had
someone on their side.
And while they're at it,
Republicans in Congress should
stop the games and extend
the payroll tax cut for
working Americans.
Because if they don't, nearly
160 million Americans will see
their taxes go up at
the end of this month.
Congress cannot end the year by
taking money out of the pockets
of working Americans.
Now is not the time
for playing politics.
Now is the time to do what's
right for the American people.
No one should go home for the
holidays until we get this done.
So tell your Members of
Congress, don't be a Grinch.
Tell them to do the right thing
for you and for our economy.
Thanks.